explain, scketch, pro and con, analise


# FDM
fused deposition modelling
material: ABS, ABSplus..
layer manufacturing technonogy

filament heated to a semi-liquid state.
filament has 2 material: primary modeller material(shape), secondary material(for support)
## cons
materials exdude from the top. have air inside (gap between the filament), only for normal industry not for areospace project.
no truely sharp corner because of the round filament.
1. accuracy limited by the filament diagram
2. slow process
3. unpredictable shrinkage: heat based process
## pros
1. fabrication of functional parts
2. minimal wages
3. ease of support structures removing
4. ease to change material (load cartidge)
5. large build volume (large machine)

## printer types
- cartesian (platform move)
- delta
- polar
- selective compaliance assemble robort arm

expensive and accurate. also has desktop machine. various filaments.
able to print muticolor -> filament management module
# SDL
mcor's selective deposition lamination
full-colour paper 3D painting
lowest-cost

use blade to cut the paper(no burn), print the color at the edge of the profile. (special ink soak through the paper)
## pros
1. low cost
2. high precision
3. safe -> paper and glue
4. eco friendly
5. high resolution in color printing

## cons
1. low strength (glue)
2. small build volume : process area about A4
3. not eazy to remove from support materials
4. unable to print complicated design with internal lattices

# LOM
laminated object manufacturing -> lazer cut layers
paper as material, lazer will burn to wood like properties
need to keep out moisture

# EBAM
electron beam welding -> election beam direct manufacutring
wire weld to module, in vaccum chamber

## pros
1. fast and cost effective
2. muti-material printing
3. superb deposition rate compareed to DED
4. ...

## cons
1. poor resolution
2. no support
3. weldable materials only

# WAAM
wire and arc addtive manufacturing
based on arc welding -> gas, plasma
## pros
1. lower equipment cost
2. lower material cost compared to powder (also safer than powder base)
3. fully connected
4. ...

## cons
1. low medium part complexity
2. poor resolution

# UAM
Ultrasonic additive manufacturing
no melting (safty), use solid metal sheets, able to combine a lot of metals
fast process
## pros
1. low tempertature process
2. process incompatilbe material

## cons
1. interfacial bonding and bonding strength
2. fixed layer thickness