
Photopolymers -> curable in UV range
Phtotpolymerization -> linking small molecules into chain-like lager molecules 
Free-radical photopolymerization



# 3D SLA
lazer direct focused radiation of appropiate power.

liquid fill the vat and the elevator table is set below the surface of the liquid resin.

supports are design to support the material.

wiper moves across the surface to recoat the next layer of resin on the surface. -> same thickness

final to put in the UV box.  --> not so curing 

## Pro
1. unattened Round the Clock Operation
2. Various Build Volumes
3. High accuracy
4. good surface finish
5. wide range of materials

## cons
1. require support structures
2. require post-processing
3. need to remove support stuctures

# envisiontec's DLP
stl file sliced layer converted into a bitmap file. -> white - material, black - void

project the image pictures.

the mask is projected from the below on the resin to cure it. the model will rising.

## pros
1. high building speed
2. office friendly process
3. small quantity of resin during build
4. no wiper -> elimates the prossibility of c
5. less shrinkage -- immediate curing of a controlled layer
6. safe supply cartiges

## cons
1. limited building volumes
2. peeling of completed part
3. requires post-processing

# stratasys' Polyjet
material cartidges
lay thin layer of material onto the tray.  all process is dry process.
colorful

## pros
1. high quality
2. high accuracy
3. fast process speed
4. smooth surface finish
5. wide range of materials
6. easy usages
7. single head replacement technology
8. safe and clean process
9. multiple materials

can print Optics

## cons
1. post process

# Two-Photon Polymerisation (2PP / TPP)
change focus point. skip layer by layer process.
focus into the process volume.
near-IR-light lazer. 2 photon meets inside the volume. 20 000 nm
small volume around focus point.

## pros
1. direct fabrication of arbitrary 3d mircrostructures
2. utilises infared light to induce polymerisation
3. good structural resolution and quality

## cons
1. lack of scalability
2. nagative effection accompanied by high resolution

# RegenHU's 3D Bioprinting
tissue, cells
stl transformed to G-code file

## pros
1. unique techonolgy
2. cost effective

## cons
1. small building volume
2. sterile environment

# Rapid Freeze Prototyping
3d ice printing
stl -> cli file.
hole system set in a freezer.
eutectic sugar as support sturacture.

## pros
1. low running cost
2. good accuracy
3. environment friendly
4. suitability on investment casting
5. good building speed

## cons
1. cold environment
2. need additional processing
3. repeatability

# Optomec's aerosol jet systems
use nanomaterials to produce fine feature circuitry and embedded components
1. mist generater
2. in-flight processing
annular flow of sheath gas to collimate the aerosol

better than ink jet
## pros
1. planar and non-planar 3d printing
2. print feature size from 10 micons to cm
3. thin layer deposits form 100nm
4. wide range of materials, ink, substrates
5. ambient
## cons
1. particle size limitation
2. nozzle spacizing

# 3DCeram
ceramic material
lazer to heat and fuze the liquied material
## pros
1. High resolution and precision
2. No minimum quantity thresholds
3. Flexibility and high speed 
4. Same properties as parts made in a traditional way
5. High efficiency

## cons
1. no multi-material
2. Large shrinkage
3. Long post-processing time
