fine powder. flow across the surface.
# SLS
drawn by laser to the point of sintering tempertature. not solidering and melting.
inert gas environment to prevent.
high complexiy.
roller to feed the powder on the surface.
no need of support structure.
## pros
1. good part stability
2. wide range of processing materials
3. no part supports required
4. little postprocessing required
5. no post curing required
6. advanced
## cons
1. large physical size
2. high power consumption
3. poor surface finish

# directed energy process metals -- SLM
beam on metal powder
- powder bed
  - DMLS
  - EBM
  - SLM -- selective laser melting
- powder-deposition -> no bed

need support structure
## pros
1. high quality metal parts
2. large range of metal materials
3. high accuracy
4. complex geometries
## cons
1. high physical size of the unit
2. high power consumption
3. relatively slow process
4. specific range of powder size
## scanning method
- degree of densification
- microstructure
- residual stress

# DMLS --> add metal on SLS

# EBM

beam will split to many beams. in vacuum chamber.
need to have support structure.
## pros
1. superior material properties
2. excellent accuracy
3. excellent finishing
4. good build speed
## cons
1. need to maintain vaccum chamber
2. high power consumption
3. gamma rays

# LMD
repair process
nozzle powder-deposition -> no bed
powder come out as a stream. contact the beam to melt above.
## pros
1. superior material properties
2. complex parts
3. add material onto existing parts
4. blend materials
5. low powder cost
## cons
1. geomtercal complexity
2. surface finish
3. dimensional accuracy

# Hybird AM
additive + subtractive
milling + laser build process

## pros
1. build and mill
2. faster than bed fusion
3. without support structure
4. switching between laser and mill for reach unreachable part
5. wall thickness
## cons
1. limited choice of materials
2. challendging to process AL Magnet, Ti
3. challenging process to set up
4. Base materials may be affected by heat

# Binder jetting system
droplet will interact with thin layer of powder
colored binding agent.
## pros
1. high speed
2. versatile
3. simple to operate
4. minimal wastage of materials --> all the powder base with bed can be reuse
5. color
## cons
1. limited functional parts
2. pool surface

# HP multi jet Fusion
IR energy will affect the special drop to fuse the powder.
accurate parts
## pros
1. fast
2. high quality fubciotnal 

## cons
1. restriction by stl
2. needs of post-processing
3. limited variations of materials
